---
 layout: post
 title: Slow is Fast
 date: 2018-09-15 03:57
 tags: 旧博客存档
---
There is a famous quote in Design, "Less is more." It tells people that when
things are designed in a simple way, you can enjoy more with them, and things
also will last longer. It also tells people not to do things over but just
good enough.

In the past few days, I'v been thinking a similar idea in a different
dimension - time. People nowadays are becoming more impatient. It seems to
them that there are too many things in their lives, and they don't know how to
keep up with everything so that they don't fall behind. So they learn to do
things as quickly as possible, and as effeciently as possible. Time is too
expensive to spend. The second worst thing for them is to find out that after
so hard they have been working all along, they still fall behind someone else
(and most possibly younger than them). And the only thing worst than that, is
to find out that someone who was behind them have been ahead.

I've been feeling this way for quite a long time too. But suddenly I realize,
if this is the real life, how are you going to enjoy it? It's impossible to
always keep the leading place in the game of life. To win one match, you have
to give up all the other matches to focus. Otherwise you will lose to someone
who do this. So you learn to slow down yourself in the unimportant events, and
slow down yourself in the unimportant  moments.

Only those who always watch the clock notice how time passes......but not
noticing how much time is wasted on watching it.

There is an inner time inside every person, and there is the outer time
outside every person. For the outer time, no matter what one's doing, it
counts. For the inner time, only doing things when one really enjoy, it
counts, and it counts faster if you enjoy more. So if you do nothing, you'll
find how the outer universal time flies but your inner time didn't make any
progress. But if you're doing your most enjoyable things, you'll feel amazing
like how much wonderful time has passed, but it might be only a few hours
actually.

Interesting as it is, I find my time is getting slow recently. Outer time is
slow, and inner time is fast.

