---
 layout: post
 title: Foundation
 date: 2018-09-15 03:57
 tags: 旧博客存档
---
A few pieces of news this week.

There's a man given himself a Chinese name "Lu An Ke" who is from Germany and
volunteers as a teacher in a village in Guang Xi Province. He has been living
there for a few years, and maintaining a blog journal in his own website about
his teaching activities. But recently he chose to close his blog and remove
all the entries, leaving the books he have translated and written, by the
reason that he don't want to draw too much public's attention(or forced by the
local gov). The story is being extremely mis-used but there is one documentary
interviewing him by Chai Jing worth watching. It tells about how Lu tries to
teach in a different way, focusing on the relationship he had built with the
children who's parents have gone to make a living far away in big cities, and
tells about what he think and why he's been doing all this. There is one quote
I like very much in the documentary - when Lu was ask why he had said in his
blog that "the people in towns and cities of China are to anxious(焦急)", he
explained, "They don't wait until the foundation is built, but require the
result happen. It should be a long time before things come out naturally."
It's just what I have been thinking these days – "Build a concrete
foundation." Good things need a foundation to last long. So i would like to
put more effort on the setups.

Another hot news, a series suicides happened in the company Foxconn since
March. The strangest thing is people's reaction on the net. They seems to be
enthusiastic to find the news that the managers and gov haven't done anything
effective to stop the tragedy and one more life has gone. The habitual
pessimism on gov and the non-responsible attitude are making the society less
and less to enjoy. Are we still going to make this world a better place?

I also working on a small experiment recently. I want to study THE WAY I
STUDY. I'm trying to use MS Excel to record down the periods I use to read
books every day, and manage the progress of each book I want to read.
Eventually I'll have the data that shows how I read books – I can spend how
much time on books every week, and how long it takes to read a book with
certain length. And then I'll figure out if there is any possible way to speed
up my reading behavior and make better reading habits. It might be hard to
keep doing this experiment, but currently I'm still having fun.

